Oracle RDS guide (#52784)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/enroll-resources/database-access/enroll-aws-databases/rds-oracle.mdx

database and uses the Kerberos protocol to authenticate with Oracle.
When a user connects to Oracle via Teleport, the Database Service obtains a
service ticket from Active Directory, then uses a long-term key for the database
user to decrypt the ticket and connect to Oracle. At that point, the
Database Service forwards user traffic to the database.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- An AWS account with the necessary permissions to create RDS instances and AWS Directory Service directories.
- An Amazon RDS for Oracle database instance.
- An AWS Directory Service Managed Microsoft AD.
- A Linux node joined to the same Active Directory domain as the database. This
  guide will walk you through the joining steps if you don't have one.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/9. Prepare the Oracle RDS Instance

Before configuring Teleport, ensure your Oracle RDS instance has Kerberos authentication and TLS properly configured:

1. Follow the [AWS RDS Oracle Kerberos Setup guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/oracle-kerberos-setting-up.html) to enable Kerberos authentication on your instance.

> 2. Enable TLS on your Oracle RDS instance by following the [AWS RDS Oracle SSL Setup documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Appendix.Oracle.Options.SSL.html). Ensure `SQLNET.SSL_VERSION` is set to `1.2` for optimal security.

Reviewer: any cipher we want to recommend? or just leave it as default

Author: I think the default is fine. I also don't want to suggest that we mandate any particular choice.

    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y yum install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="RHEL 9">
    ```code
    $ sudo curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/msprod.repo https://packages.microsoft.com/config/rhel/9/prod.repo
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y yum install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Other">
  If `adutil` is not available for your distribution, you can use `ktutil` instead. It should be available as a standard Kerberos utility.
  ```code
  $ ktutil
ktutil: addent -password -p alice@EXAMPLE.COM -k 1 -e aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96
Password for alice@EXAMPLE.COM: [enter password here]
ktutil: wkt teleport.keytab
ktutil: quit
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Log in to Active Directory using the `kinit` command:

```code
$ kinit admin@EXAMPLE.COM
```

Use the `adutil keytab create` command to generate keytab entries for each
Active Directory user that will be connecting to the SQL Server database:

```code
$ adutil keytab create teleport.keytab alice
$ adutil keytab create teleport.keytab bob
```

You will be prompted to enter each user's password. All keytab entries will
be merged into the same `teleport.keytab` file.

> <Admonition type="note" title="Assign Service Principal Names">

Reviewer: lets replace this with AWS console since using aws managed directory

  ```
</Admonition>

You can verify entries in the keytab file using `klist` command:

```code
$ klist -ke teleport.keytab
Keytab name: FILE:teleport.keytab
KVNO Principal
---- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
   5 alice@EXAMPLE.COM (aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96)
   2 bob@EXAMPLE.COM (aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96)
```

<Admonition type="warning">
  You must update the keytab file after updating a user's password to avoid
  authentication failures.
</Admonition>

## Step 5/9. Set up the Teleport Database Service

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl-token.mdx serviceName="Database" tokenType="db" tokenFile="/tmp/token"!)

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

<Admonition type="note">
  Teleport Database Service must run on a Linux server joined to the same
  Active Directory domain as the Oracle instance.
</Admonition>

Configure the Teleport Database Service. Make sure to update `--proxy` to
point to your Teleport Proxy Service address and `--uri` to the Oracle
endpoint.

```code
$ sudo teleport db configure create \
    -o file \
    --token=/tmp/token \
    --proxy=teleport.example.com:443 \
    --name=oracle \
    --protocol=oracle \

>     --uri=oracle-instance.aabbccddeegg.eu-central-1.rds.amazonaws.com:2484 \

Reviewer: I think we should have a note somewhere to use the SSL port from the option group instead of the default port

Author: Good point, I'll add a note.

    $ sudo yum -y update
    $ sudo yum -y install sssd realmd krb5-workstation samba-common-tools
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Edit `/etc/krb5.conf` to disable reverse DNS resolution and set the default
realm. Make sure that the `[realms]` section contains your domain definition
and has `admin_server` and `kdc` fields set pointing to the domain controllers:

```ini
[libdefaults]
default_realm = EXAMPLE.COM
rdns = false

[realms]
  EXAMPLE.COM = {
    kdc = example.com
    admin_server = example.com
  }
```

Join the realm:

```code
$ sudo realm join -v -U admin@EXAMPLE.COM example.com
...
 * Successfully enrolled machine in realm
```

<Admonition type="warning">
  Note that the realm name in `admin@EXAMPLE.COM` **must** be capital case,
  otherwise the node might not be able to join.
</Admonition>

To confirm the node has joined the realm, use the `realm list` command:

```code
$ sudo realm list
example.com
  type: kerberos
  realm-name: EXAMPLE.COM
  domain-name: example.com
  configured: kerberos-member
  server-software: active-directory
  client-software: sssd
  ...
```

## Step 4/9. Create keytab file

Teleport requires a keytab file to obtain Kerberos service tickets from

> Active Directory for authentication with SQL Server. The easiest way to generate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Active Directory for authentication with Oracle database. The easiest way to generate
```

    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y apt-get install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="RHEL 8">
    ```code
    $ sudo curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/msprod.repo https://packages.microsoft.com/config/rhel/8/prod.repo
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y yum install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="RHEL 9">
    ```code
    $ sudo curl -o /etc/yum.repos.d/msprod.repo https://packages.microsoft.com/config/rhel/9/prod.repo
    $ sudo ACCEPT_EULA=Y yum install -y adutil
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Other">
  If `adutil` is not available for your distribution, you can use `ktutil` instead. It should be available as a standard Kerberos utility.

  Adjust usage based on the username and `kvno` for the given user.
  
  ```code
  $ ktutil
ktutil: addent -password -p alice@EXAMPLE.COM -k 1 -e aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96
Password for alice@EXAMPLE.COM: [enter password here]
ktutil: wkt teleport.keytab
ktutil: quit
  ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Log in to Active Directory using the `kinit` command:

```code
$ kinit admin@EXAMPLE.COM
```

Use the `adutil keytab create` command to generate keytab entries for each

> Active Directory user that will be connecting to the SQL Server database:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Active Directory user that will be connecting to the Oracle database:
```

```sql
AUDIT ALL STATEMENTS by "ALICE@EXAMPLE.COM" BY access;
```

You must enable auditing for each Teleport user that will be used to connect to Oracle.
Additionally you can create a different audit policy for each user.

Edit the Database Service configuration to specify the audit user you created earlier.

```diff
db_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  databases:
  - name: "oracle"
    protocol: "oracle"
    uri: "oracle-instance.aabbccddeegg.eu-central-1.rds.amazonaws.com:2484"
    ad:
      keytab_file: "/etc/teleport/teleport.keytab"
      domain: "EXAMPLE.COM"
      krb5_file: "/etc/krb5.conf"
+   oracle:
+     audit_user: "teleport"
```

Teleport doesn't clean up audit trail events from Oracle Audit Trail.
Make sure to configure an Oracle Audit Trail cleanup policy to avoid running out of disk space.

## Step 9/9. Connect

Log in to your Teleport cluster. Your Oracle database should appear in the
list of available databases:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name      Description         Labels
# --------- ------------------- -------
# oracle                     env=dev
```

Connect to the database:

```code

> $ tsh db connect --db-user=alice --db-name ORCL oracle

Reviewer 2: Do we convert the user name to the appropriate case when passing it to Kerberos/Oracle or is it solved by them? Will it work if I pass the user `--db-user=ALICE`?

Also, it could be a good idea to clarify what the db-user is expected to do (e.g., would a fully qualified username work like `alice@EXAMPLE.COM` work here?) and if it is case-sensitive or not. We also don't want this kind of clarification on the SQL Server guide, which sometimes confuses what format to use.

Author: No, we don't do any conversion, mapping usernames is on other parties here. The names are case sensitive and cannot be fully qualified (we already have domain qualifier in `ad` part of database config).

I agree this is worth documenting, I'll add a note.

Author: @gabrielcorado I've added troubleshooting section about usernames. Do you mind re-reviewing this part for correctness?

```

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout oracle
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```

## Next steps

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/guides-next-steps.mdx!)

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer 2: Should we add an item with `Timeout errors` ([similar to what we have in other database guides](https://goteleport.com/docs/enroll-resources/database-access/enroll-aws-databases/rds/#timeout-errors))?

Also, I see we have a lot of errors that can happen due to case sensitive usernames and others (like the realm name). Should we check how those appear to the `tsh` end and have a section about them?

Author: Expanded troubleshooting.

---
title: Database Access with AWS RDS Oracle with Kerberos Authentication
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with AWS RDS Oracle with Kerberos authentication.
---

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/db-introduction.mdx dbType="Amazon RDS for Oracle" dbConfigure="with Kerberos authentication"!)

## How it works

The Teleport Database Service joins the same Active Directory domain as the Oracle
database and uses the Kerberos protocol to authenticate with Oracle.
When a user connects to Oracle via Teleport, the Database Service obtains a
service ticket from Active Directory, then uses a long-term key for the database
user to decrypt the ticket and connect to Oracle. At that point, the
Database Service forwards user traffic to the database.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- An Amazon RDS for Oracle database instance.
- An AWS Directory Service Managed Microsoft AD.
- A Linux node joined to the same Active Directory domain as the database. This

>   guide will walk you through the joining steps if you don't have one.

Reviewer: we should also have a pre-req on the client tool `tsh db connect` will use. unfortunately as this point we don't know which oracle clients are more popular. like if it's a particular GUI client, we can show steps for `tsh proxy db` instead

Enable Oracle auditing for the `alice` user:
```sql
AUDIT ALL STATEMENTS by "ALICE@EXAMPLE.COM" BY access;
```

You must enable auditing for each Teleport user that will be used to connect to Oracle.
Additionally you can create a different audit policy for each user.

Edit the Database Service configuration to specify the audit user you created earlier.

```diff
db_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  databases:
  - name: "oracle"
    protocol: "oracle"
    uri: "oracle-instance.aabbccddeegg.eu-central-1.rds.amazonaws.com:2484"
    ad:
      keytab_file: "/etc/teleport/teleport.keytab"
      domain: "EXAMPLE.COM"
      krb5_file: "/etc/krb5.conf"
+   oracle:
+     audit_user: "teleport"
```

Teleport doesn't clean up audit trail events from Oracle Audit Trail.
Make sure to configure an Oracle Audit Trail cleanup policy to avoid running out of disk space.

## Step 9/9. Connect

Log in to your Teleport cluster. Your Oracle database should appear in the
list of available databases:

```code
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name      Description         Labels
# --------- ------------------- -------

> # oracle                     env=dev

Reviewer: nit: misaligned columns

Author: Fixed.

```

Connect to the database:

```code
$ tsh db connect --db-user=alice --db-name ORCL oracle
```

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
# Remove credentials for a particular database instance.
$ tsh db logout oracle
# Remove credentials for all database instances.
$ tsh db logout
```

## Next steps

> (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/guides-next-steps.mdx!)

Reviewer: Lets add a link to the guide on your list of GUI clients

---
title: Database Access with AWS RDS Oracle with Kerberos Authentication
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with AWS RDS Oracle with Kerberos authentication.
---

> (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/db-introduction.mdx dbType="Amazon RDS for Oracle" dbConfigure="with Kerberos authentication"!)

Author: I'll do a follow up.

> (!docs/pages/includes/database-access/db-introduction.mdx dbType="Amazon RDS for Oracle" dbConfigure="with Kerberos authentication"!)

Author: As discussed current terminology follows preferred terms for given db type.

<Admonition type="note">
  You can skip this step if you already have a Linux node joined to the same
  Active Directory domain as your Oracle instance.
</Admonition>

The Linux node where the Database Service will run must be joined to the same
Active Directory domain as the Oracle database.

Note that in order to be able to join, the Linux node must be able to resolve
your Active Directory fully-qualified domain name. For example, for AWS-managed
AD, use nameservers provided under "Networking details" on the directory's
overview page.

Install necessary packages:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Ubuntu">
    ```code
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get -y install sssd realmd krb5-user samba-common packagekit adcli
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="RHEL / CentOS 7">
    ```code
    $ sudo yum -y update
    $ sudo yum -y install sssd realmd krb5-workstation samba-common-tools
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Edit `/etc/krb5.conf` to disable reverse DNS resolution and set the default
realm. Make sure that the `[realms]` section contains your domain definition
and has `admin_server` and `kdc` fields set pointing to the domain controllers:

```ini
[libdefaults]

> default_realm = EXAMPLE.COM

Author: As noted below: although it looks like a domain it is actually realm, which is a different thing in Kerberos. I'd keep it as it is to avoid further confusion.

rdns = false

[realms]
  EXAMPLE.COM = {
    kdc = example.com
    admin_server = example.com
  }
```

Join the realm:

```code
$ sudo realm join -v -U admin@EXAMPLE.COM example.com
...
 * Successfully enrolled machine in realm
```

<Admonition type="warning">

>   Note that the realm name in `admin@EXAMPLE.COM` **must** be capital case,

Author: I've copied this part from our other guide for consistency. That being said, the whole lowercase/uppercase thing is pretty key in Kerberos configuration. Technically these two identifiers can be very different as they represent different entities. The lowercase is a domain, which should be reachable via usual means, while the uppercase is realm which may or may not be capitalisation of the domain. 

Still, the most common way to configure the whole thing is align the two parts.

To make things more confusing, some Kerberos software stacks will "guess" either the realm or the domain parts if misconfigured by trying to upper/lower case it. 

This results in a confusing situation where some things work just fine, because they correct the wrong bits silently in the background, while others bail due to "unknown" entities being involved. (Silently! Who needs logs!)
